Now, at Matthew 5:11, Jesus said
people would ‘lyingly say
every wicked thing’
against lovers of truth.
They lied about Jesus Christ.
They spread lies
about first-century Christians.
They spread lies about true worshippers.
Today, we should expect lies against us,
expect persecution, expect reproach.
This is what Jesus said would happen.
And especially during “the Lord’s day”
(which we are living in right now),
prophecies indicate that even at this time,
reproach and persecution
would become clearly evident.
For example, let’s open our Bibles
to Revelation chapter 13
and see how this applies in our day
—Revelation chapter 13.
We should expect and prepare for persecution.
Now, at Revelation 13:1,
it speaks about “a wild beast.”
Now, this wild beast
is Satan’s political creation
among the masses of mankind.
But there’s something about this wild beast
that we need to understand.
And let’s now go to verse 3
about the wild beast,
or the political creation
of Satan the Devil.
In verse 3, it says:
“All the earth [mankind]
followed the wild beast with admiration.”
So it’s admired.
In what sense is this wild beast admired?
Well, it’s admired
because it endeavors to create
a higher standard of living
in various countries.
It makes advances in technology.
It tries to cure diseases.
So it wins that admiration of people.
“Oh, look at the wild beast.”
But now, let’s go beyond admiration.
Notice in verse 4 what begins to happen:
“And they worshipped the dragon
because it gave the authority
“to the wild beast [there it is again],
and they worshipped [people worshipped]
the wild beast.”
So now we go from admiration
to worship—worshipping the wild beast.
Well, in what respect? How is it worshipped?
It’s worshipped when people say
love of country before love of God.
They put love of country,
their devotion to nationalism,
before their love of Jehovah God
—so from admiration to worship.
But now, notice in verse 7 what happens:
“It was permitted to wage war
with the holy ones [true] and conquer them,
and it was given
[now notice this] authority.”
So now, the wild beast
‘was given authority over every tribe,
people, tongue, and nation.’
Authority worldwide
—authority given
over the worldwide system of rulership,
tribe, people, tongue, and nation.
And now it uses its authority,
especially against Jehovah’s people,
to clamp down on the work
that Jehovah God has given us to do
—to try to ban our work and persecute us.
That’s the authority that they use
against God’s people.
We have to be prepared for that.
But now, notice here in verse 8—
Any authority or any victory
they might have over God’s people
(the intense suffering,
yes, that we have to undergo
because of this authority),
well, it’s going to be short-lived.
And notice in verse 8 why we say that.
It says: “Not one of their names
“[not one of their names, those in Satan’s
organization, not one of their names]
has been written in the scroll of life.”
So any apparent victory is short-lived
because no one
in Satan’s visible organization
is going to be
“written in the scroll of life.”
The only ones “written in the scroll of life”
here are those who rule with Jesus Christ.
So again, any apparent victory
that they might have over God’s people
is merely temporary.
However, we go further in verse 9,
and now we have a warning.
Verse 9 says:
“If anyone has an ear,
let him hear.”
What does this mean?
Well, John now is giving direction
for us to have discernment.
If we have an ear of discernment,
we have to hear; we have to listen.
Why? Because Jehovah God
is allowing the wild beast
to have this type of authority.
He’s allowing the wild beast to operate.
He’s allowing the wild beast
to go to these lengths.
So we have to have discernment
and understand what this means in our life.
What does it mean?
Well, verse 10 says:
“If anyone is meant for captivity,
he will go into captivity.”
So there’s the persecution again.
Some of us will go into captivity.
Our brothers are already in captivity.
We think about those in Russia or in Eritrea.
They’ve been in captivity.
We go into captivity then.
We don’t compromise.
We hold on to Bible principles.
A little bit further, it goes on in verse 10:
“If anyone will kill with the sword,
he must be killed with the sword.”
So there it is again.
Some of our brothers have lost their lives.
They’ve given their lives
because of not compromising.
They’re integrity-keepers.
And this is our lot in life.
It could mean this for any one of us.
But the fact is,
that’s why we have an ear of discernment.
And now it goes on in verse 10 and says:
“This is where it calls for endurance
and faith on the part of the holy ones.”
So it will take
a tremendous amount of endurance,
not giving up hope
in the face of an obstacle, and faith.
It’s this trust and conviction
that whatever Jehovah God allows
will certainly, ultimately end up being
in our best interests at the end
—so faith,
courage,
endurance,
not compromising,
and always basing our decisions
on Bible principles.
Now, John goes further in verse 11.
He identifies now another wild beast.
He identifies a beast.
This one is a two-horned wild beast.
Notice that there in verse 11
that it’s the Anglo-American World Power.
That’s the two-horned wild beast.
Now, in verse 14, we have another beast.
This is the image of the wild beast,
and that’s the United Nations.
The Anglo-American World Power:
Look what it does there
in verse 14 and in verse 15.
It breathes life into the image.
So the Anglo-American World Power
breathes life into the image
—the United Nations.
Why?
So that it can play a role in world history.
It can move and exist and act
and play a role in world history.
And that’s exactly what we see happening
today during the Lord’s day.
But now, in verse 16, there’s something again
that we need to discern and understand
and have that ear of discernment.
Verse 16 says:
“It [again, the wild beast]
“puts under compulsion all people
“—the small and the great, the rich
and the poor, the free and the slaves—
that these should be marked
on their right hand or on their forehead.”
So now, we’re speaking about a mark
that the wild beast wants to give all of us
—all people.
You see, this wild beast is used by the Devil
to maneuver the wild beast
to promote intense suffering,
particularly on the part
of Jehovah God’s people.
So a mark on the right hand
is showing active support
—actively supporting the wild beast—
giving in to nationalism,
worldly holidays, and so forth.
This is the mark of the beast.
The right hand is a symbol
of action and active support.
And then notice even the forehead.
The mark on the forehead is public identity.
“This is who I support as well.”
It affects one’s thinking.
So the mark of the beast is something
that, again, the Devil uses.
It’s a demonic mark.
So that one promotes suffering
for those who do not have the mark.
Verse 17 says:
“And that nobody can buy or sell
except a person having the mark,
the name of the wild beast.”
Buying or selling
—you can imagine that demonic mark
of the wild beast—
Anyone engaged in activities,
normal activities such as buying or selling,
is pressured to do things the way
the wild beast wants them to do it.
And again, whether it be holidays
or supporting nationalism,
they’re expected to worship the wild beast
—let it rule their lives
so as to receive its mark.
Those who refuse to receive the mark
—Jehovah’s people today—
will have constant problems.
And this has been true for decades.
We’ve had to fight court battles
because of not having the mark,
endure violent mobs
thrown into concentration camps,
and endure lengthy imprisonments
because of not having the mark.
And in fact, in some countries, our brothers
literally are unable to buy or sell
or even to obtain property.
And yet, in spite of it all,
in spite of it all,
in spite of the pressure,
look at true worship today.
Look at the way true worship
is not just alive and well
but thriving and vibrant.
This is an outstanding demonstration
of Jehovah’s power—his spiritual protection—
upon millions of his worshippers earth wide,
integrity-keepers.
And this indisputably shows that true worship
will never be extinguished from the earth.
John too sees a great crowd
that survived the great tribulation.
So we’re thrilled to be able
to defend the truth
in spite of this type of persecution.
It’s our privilege to do so.
So it’s true,
Peter said that people
will speak abusively of us.
That’s true.
We’re going to expect persecution;
we expect reproach.
But in spite of it, we are determined
—determined not to compromise our faith,
not cower in fear, not tremble at men,
but continue to courageously magnify
Jehovah God
right down to the end.